---
title: "Who is Jack? Where did he come from? Where is he now?"
publishDate: 2024-09-07
tags:
  - "personal"
  - "biography"
excerpt: "A playful self-introduction covering Jack's origins, experiments, and how his perspective evolved."
heroImage: "/assets/images/jack/main.jpg"
---
![Jack Luo](/assets/images/jack/main.jpg)

> *Jack Luo â€” Few minute read*

**Who was I?**

You know, a long time ago, I was that kid who used to sit at
the computer in the library and play games. And many games did
I play! Minecraft, fake minecraft, all the io games possible.
I was that kid who would do everything to bypass adminstrator
perms, and install a whole operating system on the school
chromebook, just to enjoy a game. It's crazy how much I've
changed.

Well, I guess I'm still that kid, but I've changed a lot. Like
so much I couldn't even recognize myself. So this post is
dedicated to saving a record of myself on the internet. If
something ever happens, I hope you know my story.

**Where was I born?**

Singapore lah.

**What did I do in middle school?**

Not much, I had a crush on a girl, and failed to get her
attention even with all the sour patch I sold. I tried to
become the "sour patch kid". Looking back, it's cringy lol. I
tried creating youtube videos but the qualities are that of a
middle schooler. I did first robotics which was fun. Oh and
mathcounts, for the three years I have been there, I somewhat
regret not trying hard enough, but I did appreciate going
through the contest, helped a lot with logical skills.

**What did I do in high school?**

A bit more, I started to get into programming, and learned AP
CS from scratch because I couldn't get into the AP CS class
(grr my high school). I tried out for symphony for clarinet
and created some music.
[here](https://www.soundcloud.com/thejackluo)
(the music is quite interesting to say the least).

I invested in both main stream crypto and sh*t coins for fun
and growth hacked a decent amount. I might have hit the limit
on free food (especially free tpumps lo) at some point. Built
an ebike from scratch with money I have earned. Once had an
organization with 30 members teaching others how to do non
profits and start ups (lol). Oh, I biked to many random
places, within 20 miles of school. Plans to bike from south
bay to sf one day (if anyone is down message me lol, we should
schedule a time).

**What did I do in college?**

Well I have started a hacker house in SF, dived into a 200ft
cave, and chilled in stanford conference rooms.

**What do you think has changed?**

A lot to be honest. Many people thinks nothing really changed,
but inside, I have changed way too much lol. I used to be
carefree and very extraverted, but now adopt an mixed
lifestyle. I care more about the world and enjoy the stories
more. I try to appreciate what I have right now and recognize
that I am not perfect. I try to do more and not get dejected
by failure.

**How do you define true happiness?**
Do the things you want as long as it confines to the law and
your values.

**Predetermined or free will?**
Predetermined. It's against human will though.

FAQ???

To be continued???

**Update 09/07/2024**

Hi, I am creating a new page for my [reading](../readings.html) log. Feel free to check it out!
