---
title: "A selection of space, time, and philosophy"
publishDate: 2023-01-01
tags:
  - "philosophy"
  - "reflection"
excerpt: "A sweeping thought experiment on space, dimensions, time, existence, and the questions they raise."
heroImage: "/assets/images/jack/main.jpg"
---
![Jack Luo](/assets/images/jack/main.jpg)

> *Jack Luo — 7 minute read*

**Introduction**

This is a selection of discussions about space, time, and
philosophy underlying these principles. Over the course of
this year, we have engaged in hour-long discussions in an
attempt to understand the nature of our world and the
possibilities that lie beyond our imagination.

## Space

**Definition**

Let’s start by defining what space is. The definition of space
is debated heavily by philosophers even to this day. There are
different schools of thoughts on what space is. Some people
believe space is just a construct of the universe. With this
definition, everything in the boundary of the observable
universe is considered space. Others believe that space is
relative of the different things that exists within. If there
is matter, then space is the construct in which the matter
resides.

**The universe**

Many people believe that space is limited by the size of the
observable universe and that space is finite. But, the
observable universe is often misrepresented as the entire
universe when in reality, there could be more universe beyond
the observable universe. Indeed, there is a physical barrier
that prevents you from peering into the grander picture. But,
we don’t know the true scale of how big the universe is.

From this, we can infer two possibilities.

1. The universe is finite.

1. The universe is infinite.

**Possibility 1**

Let’s imagine possibility one, let’s say there is a true
boundary that separates the universe from everything else. In
this case, what is the construct outside of the universe? Is
it a location that it’s impossible for matter to exist
physically? Is it a pure vacuum with zero particles? In this
case, regardless of whether there is matter in the construct,
the construct still exist as an abstract concept. There is
nothing that stops space from extending out to infinity in all
dimensions (we will discuss more about dimensions below).
Space itself is infinite as a construct, the only thing that
makes it “finite” is our belief of what space should be.

**Possibility 2**

Let’s say that space is infinite in all directions, that means
that no matter how far you go, you will always find more space
ahead of you. But theoretically, let’s say you travel
infinitely far to the edge of the universe and teleports
outside the universe. Is the construct still considered space?
In fact, what if the universe that we know of is actually the
outskirt of another universe, and that universe is actually
considered space?

**Implications**

While debating the nature of space may not have much practical
meaning in our everyday lives, understanding how our world
shapes our biases towards the definition of space can provide
valuable insights into human nature. In essence, space could
be seen as encompassing everything that could ever possibly
exist — a universal set of all possibilities. Using this
definition, we can discuss some implications of infinite
space.

## Dimensions

We currently live in a three dimension world: there is height,
length, and width. But why three dimensions specifically? Why
not four, or five, or one hundred.

Before we answer this question, let’s ask another question:
how many dimensions are we really in, and how do we know? If
you start reflecting on this question, the first thing that
comes up is physical movement. Because we can move in three
directions physically, we are in three dimensions.

But, is physical movement really the best way to define
dimensions. What if there is another dimension that you can
travel in, but the dimension is curled up infinitely small
that you cannot physically observe the changes. You can’t
physically move in that dimension, but surely some dimension
exists. What if the dimension is something you can’t move
physically, but something you can move mentally, like a
dimension for your consciousness.

We have so far shown that there is a possibility for different
types of dimensions. What about time? Many people consider
time to be a separate dimension. But time is a dimension that
we can’t control. In fact, if we treat time as a dimension,
what about other fundamental concepts like the average
temperature of the universe? The temperature is every changing
and maps the universe from one temperature to another, of
course it is something we can’t control, but isn’t it very
similar to time? With this interpretation, every parameter
that exists out there could be a dimension of itself, leading
to quadrillions, quintillions, and even more dimensions.

## Time

The prevailing consensus is that the universe began with a Big
Bang, and another widely accepted theory is that the universe
will eventually end as entropy increases towards infinity,
culminating in a state of total disorder. But what transpired
before the universe existed? Did time exist back then, and if
so, what did it signify? How quickly does time travel in
relation to all other possible entities?

Time, akin to space, can have multiple interpretations. One
such understanding is that time represents a relative ordering
of events that occur in the past, present, and future. In this
context, time is relative to the speed at which events
transpire. Theoretically, an entire universe could emerge and
vanish within a single second, with that brief moment
encompassing the formation of stars, civilizations, galaxies,
and other exotic matter. Similarly, conscious intelligent
systems might process events on a much longer timescale,
taking 10 billion years, for example, to process a single
thought. In this regard, our universe could be either the most
significant one by a large margin or merely a speck of dust
within a much grander construct.

So, when did this concept of time start ticking? Most people
attribute the Big Bang as the genesis of everything, but what
about the time before the Big Bang? What occurred then? One
could always delve further back into the past, tracing it to
infinity. It is possible that absolutely nothing happened
during the infinite stretch of time that preceded the Big
Bang. Regardless, our understanding of what truly took place
remains limited. The more one contemplates the nature of space
and time, the more one realizes its vastness and our own
insignificance within the grand scheme of things. An
individual’s death may occur, but an infinite amount of time
remains for countless events to unfold. Time persists,
marching on forever. And yet, here you are, existing in the
present moment. What does this mean for you?

## Existence

You are aware of your own existence. As you read this, you’re
living your life and engaging in activities that interest you.
This demonstrates that the probability of your existence is
non-zero, as you serve as a singular example amidst the
trillions or quadrillions of possible scenarios in which the
universe could have formed you.

We’ve previously established that both space and time can be
potentially infinite. Consequently, there are infinite ways
for events to unfold. Given a large enough expanse, it is
theoretically possible for you to exist in a different
position within the universe. The likelihood of your exact
existence is infinitesimally small, almost zero. However,
infinity multiplied by an extremely small number still results
in infinity. Theoretically, this implies that there are
infinite versions of you scattered throughout time and space.
In fact, you might exist in countless world lines: one where
you’re a national hero, another where you’re a ruthless
dictator, one in which you lead an ordinary life, and yet
another where you’re anything but normal.

In the grand context of the universe, your life may seem
inconsequential, unlikely to have any lasting impact a billion
years from now. So why not take a chance? Why not ask out that
person you’ve been contemplating, explore new opportunities or
hobbies, and delve into the world around you, perhaps even
trying something unconventional? At the end of the day, your
awareness is limited to your current life, so why not strive
for the extraordinary?

## Questions to ponder about (Bonus)

What is truly right and truly wrong? (At one point in time, we
didn’t believe in the existence of zero and negative numbers.
At another point in time, we believed that the sun revolved
around the earth. So are our current models empirically
correct?)

What happens after you die? (As much as I know, you are
probably born again into a different conscious system)?

How would language work in four dimensions? Would people speak
in 2 dimension sequences (like images)?

How many eyes do you need to perceive 4 dimensions?
